---
title: "DLN S24"
permalink: /dln/
author_profile: false
---


As a 22-year-old university student, I embarked on a transformative journey by enrolling in an introductory course in digital humanities. What made this experience particularly enriching was the diverse group of classmates who joined me. Our majors spanned a wide spectrum of disciplines, including Computer Science, Interactive Media, Film and New Media, Environmental Studies, Business and Marketing, Literature, and Creative Writing. Being such a diverse group, all of us had different opinions on what digital humanities represented.

Coming from a Computer Science background, I had a foundation in programming languages like Python and JavaScript and experience in software development, ranging from mobile apps to web games. My academic path has been characterized by engaging in group projects, which taught me to adapt to and learn from different workflow styles. My roles have varied from being a Research Assistant at NYUAD to a Software Engineering intern at Yandex and leading the Adal Volunteers Club in Kazakhstan. These experiences refined my leadership and teamwork skills, underscoring the value of collective endeavor and shared objectives. My academic projects not only demonstrated my technical prowess but also my ability to creatively solve problems by synthesizing diverse perspectives.

My peers from Interactive Media, Film and New Media, Environmental Studies, Business and Marketing, Literature, and Creative Writing had their digital toolkits. Interactive Media students excelled in user-centered design and interactive storytelling, often utilizing software like Adobe Creative Suite. Film and New Media enthusiasts delved into multimedia production and digital narrative creation. Environmental Studies majors leveraged data analysis software for environmental research, while Business and Marketing students honed their skills in data analytics platforms for market analysis. Students in Literature and Creative Writing dived deep into research databases to fuel their literary and artistic pursuits.

The digital humanities course illuminated how our varied disciplines intersect in the digital realm. We discovered the multidisciplinary potential of content creation, from interactive websites and digital art installations to immersive narratives and AI-generated content. This course introduced us to tools like Github, Markdown, Python, and APIs, which are invaluable for our future endeavors.

On a personal note, this year marked a shift in my note-taking habits towards using Markdown exclusively. After experimenting with platforms such as Notion, Taio, and Notes, I discovered the gem - Obsidian. Obsidian is a platform where you can write your personal notes in MD and store them for yourself. In the era of cloud storage, Obsidian allows you to store all your data locally. If we take into account the privacy concerns people have with virtual storage and the amount of time it takes for someone to search for a note in a cloud-based application, Obsidian is the clear winner. In addition to a wide range of built-in features, there is also community support where people all over the world provide their solutions towards making Obsidian more powerful and helpful in everyday life. Currently, I use Obisidan for note-taking, day/week planning, and even reading PDFs to make annotations. For me, it is a life changer.

Social interaction and collaboration also evolved. Platforms like Discord became places for exchanging ideas and collaborating on projects. As an example, most of the communication in Interactive Media classes is happening on Discord! There is a channel called NYUADIM and each class has a section there for conversation. We even have a little chat where we send memes for recreational purposes. Discord is a place where people can indulge in conversations both using audio and text. 

During our class, I've had the chance to deepen my understanding of how digital tools can transform our approach to the humanities. Having already been introduced to tools like Voyant Tools, AntConc, and RStudio in my sophomore year, this course reminded me of their value. We tackled projects that made us dive into text analysis and visualization, pulling out themes and patterns from large texts that would be tough to spot just by reading. For example, using Voyant Tools, I could work through works to find recurring motifs and ideas, uncovering hidden layers within the text.

Whether it was analyzing textual data, exploring digital platforms like GitHub, or engaging with RStudio for data visualization, each assignment built on what I knew and pushed me into new territory. This blend of hands-on learning and critical thinking about digital tools in the humanities has not only sharpened my analytical skills but also broadened my perspective on how technology can enrich our understanding of human culture and creativity.

In a recent project, I engaged with the digital collections of the Harvard Art Museum to understand the impact of digitalization on art curation and appreciation. Initially, my task was to evaluate the museum's website interface for its accessibility and user experience. While the platform was notably user-friendly, it lacked a crucial feature for connecting related artworks, which I identified as a missed opportunity for enhancing contextual exploration. This finding led me to propose a "related works" section, that should help the viewer to make new historical links.

Delving deeper, I compared the presentation of artworks on the museum's website with their depiction in the given CSV file, which contained extensive metadata on each piece. This comparative analysis highlighted the advantages of digital tools in revealing connections between artworks that are not immediately visible through traditional viewing methods. Additionally, by employing Python scripts to analyze data on the museum's collection, particularly focusing on the visibility and engagement with Ottoman art pieces, I found insights into public interest and digital accessibility of art. This practical application of digital humanities methodologies not only broadened my understanding of the intersection between technology and art but also underscored the transformative potential of digital tools in making art history more accessible and engaging for a wider audience.

As I contemplate the future of digital humanities, several questions arise. How can we further leverage technology to enhance interdisciplinary studies? What ethical considerations should guide our use of digital tools in humanities research? Addressing these questions will require ongoing dialogue and exploration, drawing on the diverse perspectives and skills that our course has brought to light.

In conclusion, my journey through digital humanities has been transformative. It has expanded my horizons, bridged the gap between technology and the humanities, and equipped me with a multifaceted understanding of digital literacy. As I continue to navigate the digital landscape, I am poised to embrace new ways of thinking and working that promote interdisciplinary collaboration and responsible digital citizenship. In the age of AI, I am ready to embrace the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.

